ai-case-study

# What is Tesla? A.I. Contribution within Tesla.

## Overview and Origin

* Tesla is a great company when looking at modern day lifestyle and technology bonded together. The company Tesla was incorporated in 2003. As of today there are 5 founders but the two original founders are Martin Eberhard and Marc Terpenning. In 2003 when a popluar car company by the name of General Motors decided to recall and destroy their EV1 electric cars due to the belief that the electric car market was not profitable, Martin Eberhard and Marc Terpenning decided to continue the idea GM started understanding how useful high performance and low fuel use could be in todays world. Balancing both higher fuel efficiency and technology within the company. The company is funded via a variety of resources including the government who has contributed $2.8 billion in government subsidies since 2009, investers such as Toyota and Vanguard Group, and one of the well known funders of the company, Elon Musk. As of 2024, Tesla has received over $36.5B in funding so far.

## Business Activities

* One huge and well known issue Telsa has been dealing with is the autopilot self-driving system. In December of 2022, up to 2 million vehicles were recalled due to the fault of the autopilot. Since 2023, Telsa has released multiple updates which includes a larger driver-monitroing alerts as well as prominent visual alerts. The autosteer function was also updated to disengage if drivers dont rspond to inattentivness warnings. Tesla tends the target the more wealthy audience, typically the customers whos annual income is $100,000 or more. That being said even though many young people within the age range of 25 and 45 years of age are the typical consumers of Tesla products, the avergae age of customers of the Tesla Model S is around 54 years. Meaning the car will often determnine the targeted audience. One thing you might ask yourself when buying an electric vehicle is "Where and how do I charge my vehicle?" and Telsa has already made that one of their biggest focused by having more extensive charging networks than its competitors. Tesla operates over 45,000 superchargers and 19,000 fast chargers compared to other operators globally with only 15,000 fast chargers installed. The name itself is a huge advantage Telsa holds in the automotive technical field. When you think of electric and self driving vehicles, only one name comes to mind and thats Tesla, adding Elon Musk as one of the CEO only boosted that view. Theres no question that Tesla is heavily influenced and investing into artificial intelligence. Elon Musk has already announced an investment of $10 billion in advancing AIs involvement and capabilities within Tesla cars evolving the most popular function of said cars which is it self driving/autopilot feature. 

## Landscape

* The company Telsa mainly operates in two fields, automotive and energy fields. not only do they produce electric vehicles, but they also produce solar panels as well as batteries. Ever since the popularity of Tesla, the automotive industry has advanced in EV which in return helps become a more sustainable future. With that being said, more companies are investing time and money into EV to better attract customers whether its with the futuristic designs the vehicle has or the features these cars have that modern cars does not have for ex. autopilot. Since the rise of Tesla, advanced futuristic and tech cars are in demand with todays generation and going forward. Other major companies like Tesla includes the well known General Motors that birth the idea of Tesla, Hummer who has extended its field to include electric vehicles, and Li Auto, a chinese EV who is performing very well in this field.

## Results

* Tesla has done a lot when it comes to the impact it has had in the business industry including popularizing electric vehicles, creating more job oppurtunities, and contributing to the economy altogther. Companies like Tesla within this field measure its success in many ways including sustainability, performance, sales, and customer service. With all of these in mind, Telsa has become very successful with a significant year over year growth and an oustanding market capitalization of over $900 billion. 
Compared to other companies in this field, Tesla is indeed the most successful so far. Its biggest competitor right now is a Chinese company by the name of BYD. As of 2023, Tesla is still ahead with around 230,000 more cars sold than BYD.

## Recommendations

* Tesla would greatly improve when it comes to variety if they transintioned into the at home services such as companies like google and apple who have integrated into devices such as ring doorbell, alexa/google assist units, and even security cameras. Not a lot of people can afford Tesla cars but one thing people will always be is home, so providing technology and devices that are easily accessible while at home would benefit a widespread of users around the globe. This would be very convenient with the way Telsa operates since they will already be using AI to further advance into this new world of at home innvoation.
